Read me file for how data was generated for ovarian Cancer table for Rado

File 1: ovca_log_rado.csv
Description: All nsSNVs occurring in ovarian cancer samples mapped to 
a loss of N-linked glycosylation sequon (NXS/T).

File 2: ovca_gog_rado.csv
Description: All nsSNVs occurring in ovarian cancer predicted to cause 
a gain of N-linked glycosylation sequon (NXS/T).

Data retrieval and integration
Somatic nsSNVs were collected from COSMIC, IntOgen, ICGC, TCGA, ClinVar, and lit mining methods. Germline nsSNVs were
collected from dbSNP, and cancer somatic nsSNVs were integrated using BioMuta workflow. All cancer types were mapped
to DO terms. High confidence annotated sequence functional site data for N-glycosylation was retrieved from UniProtKB/SwissProt,
 neXtProt, HPRD, dbPTM, NCBI-CDD.

Identification of real and predicted human NLGS
Identification of sequon NXS/T (X!=P) was performed by retrieving annotated N-glycosylation sites from the human UniProtKB/SwissProt
proteome set, by using NetNGlyc and also by custom Python scripting.

Mapping NLGs to variations and reporting of LOG/GOG
By mapping, NLG to variation data set an altered NLG was considered a LOG if the altered version N abolished at first position, S and T
at the third position or a newly generated P at the second position. Similarly for GOG if altered NLG contained new generated N at first
position, S, and T at the third position or an abolished P at the second position of an NPS/T sequence. Additional GOGS were identified
using NetNGlyc.

LOG and GOG identification and pan-cancer analysis
Significant variations, sequons, and proteins were identified according to the mapping
results for LOG and GOG, especially for variations observed in multiple types of cancer.
To assess the potential enrichment of a given feature and discrepancy of occurrence of
that feature between datasets, a binomial test was used that was described in an earlier study. Numbers of associated cancer types were counted
by summing distinct DOIDs annotated at the variant level.

HGMD comparison
The set of cancer-related, NLG-impacting variants was compared to variants in the Human Gene Mutation Database, HGMD includes only published gene
lesions, and any identified nsSNV-affected LOG/GOG not cross-referenced by HGMD represented possible novel findings.

Enrichment and Drug analyses
Enrichment of pathways and drug network analysis was done using MetaCore™.
  
